# MasterThesis
Understanding Data Analyzis in an End-to-End IoT Network

This is my Master Thesis in Communication Technology with specialization within Networks, Services and Applications from the Norwegian University of Science and Technology. 

The thesis will describe how to build a full End-to-End IoT network to gather data from sensors using technologies as 6LoWPAN and Bluetooth Low Energy as well as physical sensors from Adafruit, the nRF52 from Nordic Semiconductor and the Raspberry Pi 2 and 3. 

Abstract of the thesis: 

The Internet of Things (IoT) is known as the concept of connecting
everyday physical devices to the Internet. It is natural to assume that the
popularity and development within this field will increase in the following
years. This means that more and more things will be able to communicate
over the Internet. In the process of developing IoT, an important part is to
build reliable and scalable networks, and understanding where data should
be processed concerning power consumption and costs of transferring
data in various regions of the network.

The task of the thesis will be to access data in a complete prototype
of an IoT network, and both collect and analyse the data. The goal is
to study different alternatives for a typical IoT system and provide an
overview of current state-of-the-art technologies, products and standards
that can be used in such a setting. Data can be generated by using and
comparing different sensors connected to end nodes in the network. A
complete network of both microcontrollers and single-board computers
will be built and explained in this thesis. The network will from now on
be referred to as testbed.

Microcontrollers as end nodes in an IoT network will be the central element
tested in this thesis. The primary focus is to establish a connection
between two devices, A and B, and form a network between these that
can transport data efficiently. A central point of discussion will be to find
transfer protocols and technologies that can be used in such a system. It
will be discussed the advantage and disadvantage of sending raw data,
rather than doing the computation in the end nodes. The main focus will
be on optimal throughput in the network. A deep understanding of the
benefits of processing data in the end nodes, concerning power, costs and
time is needed to achieve this.

Results from this work include graphs and discussions explaining in which
case the different transport protocols suggested are preferred, from tests
done in the testbed. These show that different protocols are suited for
different usage and that one of the tested possibilities more stable than
the other in the tests presented. Both protocols registered their highest
measured goodput at approximately 600 bytes/second. Being a quite slow
transfer rate, this opened up for another discussion about the possible
use cases for future Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE)-based IoT applications.

Keywords: Optimizing payload sizes, fragmentation, maximizing through-
put, power usage.
